# Prebiotic driven increases in IL-17 do not affect *Campylobacter jejuni* colonization of chickens
Worldwide *Campylobacter jejuni* is a leading cause of foodborne disease. Contamination of chicken meat with digesta from *C. jejuni*-positive birds during slaughter and processing is a key route of transmission to humans through the food chain. Colonization of chickens with *C. jejuni* elicits host innate immune responses that may be modulated by dietary additives to provide a reduction in the number of campylobacters colonizing the gastrointestinal tract and thereby reduce the likelihood of human exposure to an infectious dose. Here we report the effects of prebiotic galacto-oligosaccharide (GOS) on broiler chickens colonized with *C. jejuni* when challenged at either an early stage in development of six days of age or twenty days old when campylobacters are frequently detected in commercial flocks. GOS-fed birds had increased growth performance, but the levels of *C. jejuni* colonizing the cecal pouches were unchanged irrespective of the age of challenge. Dietary GOS modulated the immune response to *C. jejuni* colonization by increasing cytokine IL-17A expression whilst reducing IL-17F. Correspondingly, reduced diversity of the cecal microbiota was associated with *Campylobacter* colonization in GOS-fed birds. In birds challenged at six days-old the reduction in microbial diversity was accompanied by an increase in the relative abundance of *Escherichia* spp. Whilst immuno-modulation of the Th17 pro-inflammatory response did not prevent *C. jejuni* colonization of the intestinal tract of broiler chickens, the study highlights the potential for combinations of prebiotics and specific competitors (synbiotics) to reduce the pathogen burden in birds and has potential in human therapy.
